diplomatic efforts to reach a ceasefire
deal between Israel and Hamas are
increasing Hamas delegation is in Cairo
to meet mediators from Egypt and katar
CIA director William Burns is also there
the Israelis have yet to send their
delegation and it's not clear when that
will happen sticking points remain as
Hamas demands Israel ends the war in
Gaza permanently that's something prime
minister Benjamin netanyahu's government
is refusing to
do and in Israel the government is under
mounting pressure thousands gathered in
Tel Aviv to attend a weekly
anti-government protest against Israel's
handling of the war they're calling for
the prime minister to sign a deal with
Hamas to return captives held in
Gaza I'm here today to support uh a deal
now yesterday we need to bring him back
we need to bring all the hostages back
the alive ones the the dead ones we we
got to bring them back we got to switch
this government
this has got to
end Netanyahu we call you to reach a
ceasefire deal which secures the release
of all captives you're taking more time
so you and Ben gavier can stay in power
you don't care about the 133 or 132
captives an operation in Rafa will cause
the death of the captives you don't have
mandate to kill 132 citizens of
Israel let's get more now with our
correspondent Stephanie deer in occup P
East Jerusalem Stephanie protesters are
demanding that the talks resume is the
government
listening well you heard there and if we
break down their demands some of them
are calling for early election some of
them are calling for the government to
step down for Netanyahu specifically to
go that he is responsible for October
the 7th um for the captives to come home
for any deal at this point at whatever
it costs to be made so are they
listening at this point in time I think
we can say no um these protests have
been going on for months and months and
months and the feeling is and you heard
there from a family member of one of the
captives that if Israel goes into Rafa
that it's very unlikely that any of the
captives however many remain alive at
this point will return home alive so we
have a very critical juncture in the
talks you also heard him there
mentioning benir itar benir this is uh
one of the right-wing cabin members of
netanyahu's government that really
ensures along with bezel smotrich the
survival of this government he made a
statement yesterday saying that he was
very happy that Israel hadn't sent a
delegation to Cairo that he hoped that
Netanyahu would make good on his
promises to Ben G that he needs to go
into Rafa and then if he doesn't that
the Prime Minister knows the
consequences and I that is alluding at
potentially leaving government and
causing a collapse of the government so
that gives you an indication of the
domestic pressure Netanyahu is under
Netanyahu is a man who at the Forefront
of everything is his political survival
so uh I think you mentioned there in
terms of an Israeli delegation to Caro
it's going to be very interesting if at
some point we see an Israeli de
delegation go that will be a positive
sign but at the moment some kind of
impass certainly and more and more
reports in the media now pointing the
blame at Netanyahu that he's the one who
doesn't want a deal earlier just briefly
and blink the US Secretary of State was
here just a few days ago saying that the
onus was on Hamas if Hamas didn't accept
this deal it was them who didn't care
about their people well now you know we
have leaks that Hamas is probably going
to accept what's on the table and it's
the Israelis particularly the Israeli
Prime Minister uh who seems to be
delaying and scuppering what is on the
table at the moment and Stephanie
regarding the talks themselves then what
might we expect next realistically
well they resumed today in Cairo you
mentioned there you still have the head
of the CIA William Burns in Cairo along
with the Hamas delegation there will be
intensive negotiations ongoing also
pressure on the Israelis because as we
know the Americans and the Egyptians and
the qataris also have made it clear that
they want no Rua offensive so we're
going to have to wait and see what comes
out at this point it's not only waiting
for Hamas what they have to say even
though the Israelis say we need a
positive from Hamas before we send a
delegation there's a lot happening in
Israel we have a cabinet meeting at
11:00 a.m. local that's in about 3 hours
time sometimes the Prime Minister makes
a public statement we'll wait and see
what he has to say but we're in a it's
an impass at the moment critical times
and it could go either way we're going
to have to wait and see how the days
unfold in occupied East for us Stephanie
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
here